docs: new experimentation engine beta docs (#11264)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/experiments/new-experimentation-engine.mdx

---

> title: New experimentation engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: New experimentation engine (beta)
```

---

> We're building a new experimentation engine to support more advanced features and improve the accuracy of experiment results. It's ready to try out, and we’d love your feedback if you give it a spin!
> 
> Here are some of the key features included in the new engine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: We are keen to gather as much feedback as possible so if you try this out, please let us know. You can email [anders@posthog.com](mailto:anders@posthog.com), send feedback via the [in-app support panel](https://us.posthog.com/#panel=support%3Afeedback%3Aexperiments%3Alow%3Afalse), or use one of our other [support options](/docs/support-options).

We're building a new experimentation engine to support more advanced features and improve the accuracy of experiment results.  Here are some of the key features it includes:
```

When you add a funnel metric, we insert a placeholder for the experiment exposure in the preview. That’s because using the actual exposure criteria as the first step would typically result in no data being shown. During evaluation, your chosen exposure event will serve as the actual first step. This means you can add funnels with just one step—exposure is implicitly treated as step one.

#### Mean

Use this to track metrics like total event count or summed values (e.g., revenue). Here’s how it works:

1. We aggregate the chosen value for each user using your selected method (count, sum, or average).
2. We then compute the *mean* of those values for each variant.
3. This mean is used to determine the statistical difference between variants.

For example:
- If you choose “sum of revenue,” we calculate total revenue per user, then take the mean across users.
- If you select “average revenue,” we first compute each user’s average (total revenue / number of events), then average those values across users. (NB: average is not yet supported, but coming soon!)

#### Ratio

Not yet supported—but it's on the roadmap!

### Outlier handling

> Limit the impact of extreme values by capping metric data at specified percentile thresholds, using configurable lower and upper bounds. This technique—commonly known as Winsorization—is especially useful for metrics with highly skewed distributions, such as revenue or total event counts, where a small subset of users can produce unusually high values that distort overall results.

Reviewer: Adding a little more to what happens to metrics that exceed the threshold
```suggestion
You can limit the impact of extreme values by capping metric data at specified percentile thresholds using configurable lower and upper bounds. Metric data beyond those thresholds aren't included in experiment calculations.

This technique is commonly known as **Winsorization** and is especially useful for metrics with highly skewed distributions, such as revenue or total event counts, where a small subset of users can produce unusually high values that distort overall results.
```

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/outlier_handling_light_8139933041.png"
  imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/outlier_handling_dark_c7c0d775d6.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="Screenshot of outlier handling"
/>

> ### Conversion windows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conversion windows
```

> Restrict metric events to those that occur within a defined time window following a user’s initial exposure to the experiment. This ensures that only relevant, post-exposure behavior is included in the analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conversion windows restrict metric events to those that occur within a defined time window following a user’s initial exposure to the experiment. Metric events outside of the conversion window aren't included in experiment calculations. 

This ensures that only relevant, post-exposure behavior is included in the analysis.
```

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/conversion_window_limit_light_25b34f15b9.png"
  imageDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/conversion_window_limit_dark_c07beddef8.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="Screenshot of conversion window configuration"
/>

---

> ### What's not yet supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's not yet supported
```

> The new engine is still in beta, so some features in the old engine is not yet supported in the new. All of these are things we are working on and hope to ship soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new engine is still in beta, so some features in the old engine aren't supported yet.  We are working on fixing this and hope to ship them soon.
```

> * **Exploring results**: You can not yet easily explore and dive deeper into results in Product analytics. You will have to manually create insights to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Exploring results**: You can not yet easily explore and dive deeper into results in product analytics. You will have to manually create insights to do so.
```
